Coursera Capstone Project - Car Accident Severity

The objective of this project is to predict the severity of an accident based on the data that were collected from the Seattle City for collisions happened from 2004 to 2019. 

The data set used met the following criteria: 

1.The target or label columns should be accident " severity" in terms of human fatality, traffic delay, property damage, or any other type of accident bad impact. 
2.The machine learning model should be able to predict accident "severity"
3.To build a good model, the dataset should be rich and contain many observations (rows) and various attributes (columns)

Problem background
According to the World Health Organization https://www.who.int/violence_injury_prevention/road_safety_status/2018/en/, there were approximately 1.35 million people killed on 
roadways around the world. Averagely there are almost 3,700 people killed globally in road traffic crashes. It was estimated to be the eighth leading cause of death globally 
for all age groups and the leading cause of death for children and young people 5-29 years of age. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) data
https://injuryfacts.nsc.org/motor-vehicle/overview/introduction/ shows that in United States alone in year 2018, there were around 50,000 deaths from car accident and 
4 million accidents that causes disabling and non-disabling injuries. The causes of accident ranges from weather condition, driver condition to road condition. By being able to 
predict the severity of accident based on several conditions, it could help insurance company to calculate the risk of the insurer based on the route they frequently used 
and the weather condition of their area. This machine learning project could also suggest navigation systems on which route is the safest to the user.  

Audience
It was published in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society shorturl.at/uCO08 that there is a 34 percent increase in the risk of a fatal crash when precipitation is 
falling. Seattle is considered one of the state that has a lot of precipitation compared to other states in United States. This machine learning project is directed towards the 
people of Seattle as to how to reduce the risk of getting in an accident. It could also be used by the Department of Transportation to find ways on how to improve the traffics 
within Seattle and provide safetiness to its people.
